Here is obvious realization of the error function.
We're standing on top a mountain,
Mount Errorest and I want to descend
but it's not that easy because it's cloudy and the mountain is very big,
so we can't really see the big picture.
What we'll do to go down is we'll look around us and we
consider all the possible directions in which we can walk.
Then we pick a direction that makes us descend the most.
Let's say it's this one over here.
So we take a step in that direction.
Thus, we've decreased the height.
Once we take the step and we start the process again and again always decreasing
the height until we go all the way down the mountain, minimizing the height.
In this case the key metric that we use to solve the problem is the height.
We'll call the height the error.
The error is what's telling us how badly we're doing at
the moment and how far we are from an ideal solution.
And if we constantly take steps to decrease the error then
we'll eventually solve our problem, descending from Mt.
Errorest.
Some of you may be thinking,
wait, that doesn't necessarily solve the problem.
What if I get stuck in a valley,
a local minimum, but that's not the bottom of the mountain.
This happens a lot in machine learning and we'll
see different ways to solve it later in this Nanodegree.
It's also worth noting that many times
a local minimum will give us a pretty good solution to a problem.
This method, which we'll study in more detail later,
is called gradient descent.
So let's try that approach to solve a problem.
What would be a good error function here?
What would be a good way to tell the computer how badly it's doing?
Well, here's our line with our positive and negative area.
And the question is how do we tell the computer how far it is from a perfect solution?
Well, maybe we can count the number mistakes.
There are two mistakes here.
So that's our height. That's our error.
So just as we did to descend from the mountain,
we look around all the directions in which we can move
the line in order to decrease our error.
So let's say we move in this direction.
We'll decrease the number of errors to one and then if we're moving in that direction,
we'll decrease the number of errors to zero.
And then we're done, right? Well, almost.
There's a small problem with that approach.
In our algorithms we'll be taking very small steps and the reason for that is calculus,
because our tiny steps will be calculated by derivatives.
So what happens if we take very small steps here?
We start with two errors and then move a tiny amount and we're still at two errors.
Then move a tiny amount again and we're still two errors.
Another tiny amount and we're still at two and again and again.
So not much we can do here.
This is equivalent to using gradient descent to try to
descend from an Aztec pyramid with flat steps.
If we're standing here in the second floor,
for the two errors and we look around ourselves,
we'll always see two errors and we'll get confused and not know what to do.
On the other hand in Mt.
Errorest we can detect very small variations in height and we can
figure out in what direction it can decrease the most.
In math terms this means that in order for us to do gradient descent
our error function can not be discrete, it should be continuous.
Mt. Errorest is continuous since
small variations in our position will translate to small variations in
the height but the Aztec pyramid does not
since the high jumps from two to one and then from one to zero.
As a matter of fact, our error function needs
to be differentiable, but we'll see that later.
So, what we need to do here is to construct
an error function that is continuous and we'll do this as follows.
So here are six points with four of them correctly classified,
that's two blue and two red,
and two of them incorrectly classified,
that is this red point at the very left and this blue point at the very right.
The error function is going to assign a large penalty to
the two incorrectly classified points and
small penalties to the four correctly classified points.
Here we are representing the size of the point as the penalty.
The penalty is roughly the distance from the boundary when the point is
misclassified and almost zero when the point is correctly classified.
We'll learn the formula for the error later in the class.
So, now we obtain the total error by adding all the errors from the corresponding points.
Here we have a large number so it is
two misclassified points add a large amount to the error.
And the idea now is to move the line around in order to decrease these error.
But now we can do it because we can make very tiny changes to the parameters of
the line which will amount to very tiny changes in the error function.
So, if you move the line,
say, in this direction,
we can see that some errors decrease, some slightly increase,
but in general when we consider the sum,
the sum gets smaller and we can see that because we've now
correctly classified the two points that were misclassified before.
So once we are able to build an error function with this property,
we can now use gradient descent to solve our problem.
So here's the full picture.
Here we are at the summit of Mt.
Errorest. We're quite high up because our error is large.
As you can see the error is the height which is the sum of the blue and red areas.
We explore around to see what direction brings us down the most, or equivalently,
what direction can we move the line to reduce the error the most,
and we take a step in that direction.
So in the mountain we go down one step and in the graph we've reduced the error a
bit by correctly classifying one of the points. And now we do it again.
We calculate the error,
we look around ourselves to see in what direction we descend the most,
we take a step in that direction and that brings us down the mountain.
So on the left we have reduced the height and successfully
descended from the mountain and on the right we have
reduced the error to its minimum possible value and successfully classified our points.
Now the question is, how do we define this error function?
That's what we'll do next.